First draft of intro + learning objectives for debugging session (#21)
rostools/r-pkg-intro: sessions/debugging.qmd

# Checking correctness of code: Debugging

{{< include ../includes/_wip.qmd >}}

```{r setup}
#| include: false
```

**Introduction**

Debugging is one of activities that seems really scary and difficult,
but once you try it and use it, is not nearly as intimidating as it
seemed. In this session we will focus on using RStudio's interactive
debugger to debug code.

**Session objectives**:

> -   Understand what debugging is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Describe what formal debugging is in the context of package development in RStudio.
```

In general, you want to avoid using "understand" and "learn" in learning objectives, because they don't help the learner know what to expect in a more tangible sense.

> -   Identify how the debugger tool is started in RStudio, what it looks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Identify what the debugger tool is in RStudio, use it to start debugging a function, and identify what it looks
```

>     like and apply it to debug functions that cause issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    like when it has started.
```

> -   Understand `traceback()` error messages to identify which function
>     is causing an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Identify and interpret `traceback()` error messages to identify which function
    is causing an issue and where to begin the debugging process.
```

> -   Apply `stop()` statements to your functions to protect users from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Use the `{rlang}` package functions like `abort()` and `warn()` in your functions to protect users from
```

    unexpected behavior.

> ## What is debugging?

Reviewer: For now I won't review this section, since it will likely change quite a bit as we add the exercises. But great progress!!

causing the `NA` outputs and why it is causing them.

## Using stop()

By default, R is quite forgiving about accepting inputs, even those that
might not be the intended type. Even when it might not make much sense,
R will try its best to use the inputs and run the function you ask it
to.

In the above example, we got a warning with an informative message
related to the `NAs` produced by the `sqroot()` function, but sometimes
it might be best to return an error and stop the code from executing, or
to add a specific error message. The `stop()` function allows you to do
just that, and helps the user start the debugger in the area of the code
and environment that caused the error. This can be very helpful to
"future you" or other users, so consider where a `stop()` call can
protect users from unexpected behavior when your are making custom
functions.

```{r, eval=FALSE}
test_debugging <- function(number) {
  double_of_number <- number + number
    if(number < 0) {
    stop("Input number is negative, can't compute square root")
  }
  number_squareroot <- sqrt(number)
  
  return(double_of_number - number_squareroot)
}
```

> #### Exercise ideas

Reviewer: Just some other ideas too:

- Give them some code that has something wrong in it and get them to run the debugger to find the problem
- Get them to find the best place to insert abort and warn functions

# Checking correctness of code: Debugging

{{< include ../includes/_wip.qmd >}}

```{r setup}
#| include: false
```

**Introduction**

Debugging is one of activities that seems really scary and difficult,
but once you try it and use it, is not nearly as intimidating as it
seemed. To debug, which means to find and fix problems in your code,
there are several ways, e.g. simply adding 'breakpoints', `print()` or
`stop()` calls to your code, or by using the interactive debugger. All
these methods help you stop and/or inspect the code during its
execution, which is very helpful if you suspect there is a problem in
the code.

**Session objectives**:

> -   Learn how to use RStudio's interactive debugger to explore
>     unexpected behavior in your code.

Reviewer: Amazing start 🎉 🍻 see my comments on the other PRs (#13 and #15) for how I started revising the learning objective/outcome. In general, you want to avoid using the word "learn" in the learning objective, and instead use more explicit and specific language. For instance, see https://tips.uark.edu/using-blooms-taxonomy/ for verbs to use.

In general, in these courses, we focus on "remembering", "understanding", "applying", and sometimes "creating" levels of learning. 

So, in this case, the learning objective could be rewritten as:

```suggestion
-   Identify where the debugger tool is in RStudio and apply it to debug functions that cause issues.
```

#| code-summary: "**Click for the solution**. Only click if you are struggling or are out of time."
```

## Alternatives to the debugger

> Other debugging methods include adding 'breakpoints' or `print()`

Reviewer: Using breakpoints is a big part of debugging in formal IDE environments, so I wouldn't suggest putting this within the "alternatives" section.
